New endpoint rules (#6100)
elastic/security-docs: docs/management/admin/endpoint-protection-rules.asciidoc

[[endpoint-protection-rules]]
= Endpoint protection rules

> Endpoint protection rules are prebuilt rules designed to help you manage and respond to alerts generated by {elastic-endpoint}, the installed component that performs {elastic-defend}'s threat monitoring and prevention. These rules include the <<endpoint-security, {elastic-defend}>> rule as well as additional detection and prevention rules for different {elastic-defend} protection features.

Reviewer: I'm sure the team that generates the prebuilt rule docs is already on this, but in case they accidentally missed it (or we're naming the rule differently in the UI), I wanted to point out that the [docs](https://security-docs_bk_6100.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/endpoint-security.html) for the Elastic Defend rule are still titled _Endpoint Security_.

Author: Hey @approksiu, do you know if/when the TRADE team will be updating the prebuilt rule docs for the Elastic Defend rule? Should we wait until those docs are updated before we release this?

> NOTE: To receive {elastic-endpoint} alerts, you must install the Endpoint agent on your hosts (see <<install-endpoint>>).

Reviewer: I'd bump the admonition up to `IMPORTANT` since this is a requirement for getting Endpoint alerts. (Same suggestion for [this line](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6100/files#diff-2660cdd6a483bf299687cd255fea85908e3e47c4e2aad201cb73f4c193aaec29R6) in the Serverless docs).

```suggestion
IMPORTANT: To receive {elastic-endpoint} alerts, you must install the Endpoint agent on your hosts (see <<install-endpoint>>).
```

[discrete]

> == {elastic-defend} rule

Reviewer: While anchors aren't necessary, they are nice to have in case you ever need to link to this section from another page.

> The {elastic-defend} rule automatically creates an alert from all incoming {elastic-endpoint} alerts. When this rule is enabled, the following Endpoint events are displayed as detection alerts:

Reviewer: The first sentence is a little confusing, probably because I don't know much about the Defend integration and how it interacts with Endpoint to generate alerts. Am I understanding correctly that the Elastic Defend rule creates alerts from Endpoint alerts, and not from Endpoint _events_? (Same question for [this line](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6100/files#diff-2660cdd6a483bf299687cd255fea85908e3e47c4e2aad201cb73f4c193aaec29R11) in the Serverless docs.)

** Malware Prevention Alert

> ** Malware Detection Alert

Author: Good point, I moved this content over from its [current place](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/detection-engine-overview.html), but I'm not sure how up-to-date it is.

Another question is, since we've already been listing the names of these detection alerts generated by the Elastic Defend rule, should we now also list the names of the alerts generated by the new endpoint rules? We also noticed while testing that those alert names are currently the same regardless of whether they come from the Elastic Defend rule or the new rules. So if we decide to list them, it could be helpful to explain that, in order to understand which rule the alert was generated from, users need to open the rule details page (I think?).

It would be good to hear @caitlinbetz's or @approksiu's thoughts on this, too.

> ** Malware Detection Alert

Reviewer 2: The alert name is taken from the original Endpoint Alert name, and overwrites the prebuilt rule name.

NOTE: When you load the prebuilt rules, this is the only rule that is enabled by default.

[discrete]
== Feature-specific protection rules

The following endpoint protection rules give you more granular control over how you handle the generated alerts. These rules are tailored for each of {elastic-defend}'s endpoint protection features—malware, ransomware, memory threats, and malicious behavior. Enabling these rules allows you to configure more specific actions based on the protection feature and whether the malicious activity was prevented or detected.

> 

Reviewer: Do the following rules need to reference prebuilt rule docs, similar to how to provide a link to the Elastic Defend rule [docs](https://security-docs_bk_6100.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/endpoint-security.html)? (Same question for [this section](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6100/files#diff-2660cdd6a483bf299687cd255fea85908e3e47c4e2aad201cb73f4c193aaec29R25-R32) in the Serverless docs.)

Author: 👍  Created an [enhancement request](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/issues/6182) to add those links once the prebuilt rule docs are published.

* Behavior - Detected - Elastic Defend
* Behavior - Prevented - Endpoint Defend
* Malicious File - Detected - Elastic Defend
* Malicious File - Prevented - Elastic Defend
* Memory Signature - Detected - Elastic Defend
* Memory Signature - Prevented - Elastic Defend
* Ransomware - Detected - Elastic Defend
* Ransomware - Prevented - Elastic Defend

> To use these rules, you need to manually enable them on the **Rules** page of the {security-app}. Follow the instructions for <<load-prebuilt-rules,installing and enabling Elastic prebuilt rules>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use these rules, you need to manually enable them from the **Rules** page in the {security-app}. Follow the instructions for <<load-prebuilt-rules,installing and enabling Elastic prebuilt rules>>.
```

[discrete]

> == Exception handling

Reviewer: A more descriptive header could help with findability when users search our docs or Google them. (Same suggestion for [this title](https://github.com/elastic/security-docs/pull/6100/files#diff-2660cdd6a483bf299687cd255fea85908e3e47c4e2aad201cb73f4c193aaec29R37) in the Serverless docs.)

```suggestion
== Endpoint Security exception handling
```

> All endpoint protection rules share a common exception list called Endpoint Security Exception List. This ensures that if you switch between using the {elastic-defend} rule and the feature-specific protection rules, your existing <<endpoint-rule-exceptions, {elastic-endpoint} exceptions>> continue to apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All endpoint protection rules share a common exception list called the Endpoint Security Exception List. This ensures that if you switch between using the {elastic-defend} rule and the feature-specific protection rules, your existing <<endpoint-rule-exceptions, {elastic-endpoint} exceptions>> continue to apply.
```
